[MUSIC]
>> Justin Meyer: Given the HTML
on your page, the CSS,
and actually the dimensions
of your browser window.
How does the browser lay everything out,
especially the block level layout?
Right it lays that out somehow.
It makes this div a certain with.
And then once the element
has been laid out,
often it's important to know
how big that element is.
If you're creating a slider or
something like that, you need to know
how big this element,
what the room to slide around in, is.
Right, so the DOM provides methods that
you can get an element's dimensions and
location in the page.
So the first thing.
Yeah, I have a slider demo that basically,
when you're making widgets
complex widgets like on the order
of something like jQuery Y,
you typically have to read
the current dimensions of things.
So that you make sure your slider can
move around like in the exact right area.
I have a demo but I'm not gonna show it,
but just suffice it to say,
when you start building
very serious widgets.
Whatever their styles might be you should
learn to adapt to them and that's why it's
important to understand how dimensions and
layout work in the browser.
So let's start with the most
simple example possible.
You've got a body element with a div
inside it that says hello world.
And I'm gonna paint this green.
I should have a style with green but
I couldn't fit it.
And we're gonna start changing
some properties around on it.
So when you first render this page, if I
give the div a background color of green,
it would just be laid out right here.
And this yellow represents
the default margin of the body.
So if you open up a hello
world with a div,
you'll see that it doesn't quite extend
all the way to the outside of the page.
Then if I were to give this
element a width of 30 pixels and
a height of 30 pixels,
it would then take on that dimension.
And if I were to give it a padding,
this padding would be the same color,
they'd be the same color green.
I just change the color green
to illustrate that padding
goes around the width of the.
So if I give a pixel width of 30
pixels and a padding of four pixels.
The total size of the element would
look like it was 38 pixels big, right?
With the default box sizing
of content box, padding and
border and margin is laid outside
of the width of the element.
So if I gave it a border of four pixels,
the border be added around.
And if I gave it a margin
of 10 pixels on the top and
bottom, and three pixels on the sides,
it would be laid out like that.
And that's a little strange too, so
one thing to know is vertical margins
are collapsed but horizontal
margins push up against each other.
So you can see here that
the margin is 10 pixels so
it's gonna be 10 pixels
away from the top but
the margin distance here would be eight
plus three pixels, 11 pixels, all right?
So it doesn't collapse the margins this
direction which is a little strange to me,
but that's how the the DOM works.
>> Justin Meyer: Now I had a whole
spiel here but it can take a while so
I'm just going to skip it.
[LAUGH] This is how layout happens and
just to say on a high
level layout happens.
Horizontal dimensions
are calculated first and
then vertical dimensions
are calculated second, but
I'm gonna skip over that,
it's just not worth explaining right now.
If I have time at the end
I'll come back to it.
So the DOM, once it's laid everything out,
gives you some information about
the dimensions of elements in the page.
There's properties that you can read.
Such as an element's offsetHeight and
offsetWidth.
That gives you the element's
dimensions from border to border,
vertical border and
horizontal border to border.
It also gives you a clientWidth and
clientHeight.
So you can do element.clientWidth and
element.clientHeight,
and it will give you how wide
the element is with just its padding.
What's weird is there's nothing that
gives you the width of this content area.
Strange, but jQuery does.
jQuery gives you an innerWidth(),
an outerWidth(),
a width() function and
an outerWidth(), if you pass it true,
it gives you the size of the margin,
all right, around the area.
And also gives you these things for
height.
It gives you height,
innerHeight, outerHeight, and
outerHeight(true), to get
the the corresponding dimensions.